---
cover: /articles/get-started-with-storybook.webp
author:
  name: Chakir QATAB
  avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1042510623962275840/1Iw_Mvud_400x400.jpg
  link: https://twitter.com/atinux
date: 2022-08-23
layout: article
---

# Get Started with Storybook for Vue.js

Getting started with Storybook for Vue.js is easy and allows you to efficiently develop and test your Vue components.

## Installation

To begin, you need to install Storybook in your Vue.js project. Open your terminal and run:

```bash
npx -p @storybook/cli sb init
```

This command will initialize Storybook in your Vue.js project.

## Configuration

Next, you can configure Storybook to match your project's needs. You can customize the appearance and behavior of Storybook by editing the `.storybook/main.js` file in your project.

## Creating Stories

Now, it's time to create stories for your Vue components. Create `.stories.js` files for each component you want to showcase in Storybook. Here's an example of how to create a simple story for a Vue component:

```javascript
import MyComponent from './MyComponent.vue';

export default {
  title: 'MyComponent',
  component: MyComponent,
};

export const Default = () => ({
  components: { MyComponent },
  template: '<my-component></my-component>',
});
```

You can create stories for different component variations and states.

## Running Storybook

Once you have created your stories, you can start the Storybook development server:

```bash
npm run storybook
```

This will open a new browser window displaying your component stories. You can interactively test and develop your Vue components within Storybook.

## Deployment

To deploy your Storybook for Vue.js, you can build a static version of it and host it on various platforms, similar to how you would deploy a website. You can use services like GitHub Pages, Netlify, or Vercel for hosting your Storybook.

To build the static version of Storybook, run:

```bash
npm run build-storybook
```

This will generate a `storybook-static/` directory with all the necessary files for deployment.

You can then deploy this directory to your preferred hosting platform and share your Vue component library with your team or the community.
