---
cover: /articles/write-articles.webp
date: 2022-08-23
description: Writing Vue Stories in Vue Reactive style.
layout: article
---

# Write Stories

Write Markdown stories in your Nuxt application is straightforward.

## Create an stories list

Create a new file in the `content/` directory:
  
```bash
touch content/2.stories.md
```

The numbered prefix determines the order of the menu items.

In this file, use the `stories-list` component to display the list of stories:

```md [2.stories.md]
---
title: 'stories'
layout: 'page'
---

::stories-list
---
path: stories
---
::

```

The `path` prop corresponds to the directory where the stories are stored.

## Display an article in the list

Create a new file in the `/content/stories` directory:

```bash
mkdir content/stories
touch content/stories/1.my-new-article.md
```

For your article to be correctly displayed in the [stories list](/stories), define a `cover` and `date` property in the frontmatter:

```yaml [content/stories/1.my-new-article.md]
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
---
```

The `cover` property can be a local path relative to the `/public` directory or an external URL.

Your article will now be displayed in the list with its filename as a default title.

## Edit your article

Under the frontmatter block, enter a Markdown `h1` tag and a line of text:

```md [content/stories/1.my-new-article.md]
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
---

# An awesome article

This article is little by size but big by heart.
```

Your article will now be displayed in the list with the title and description you wrote in Markdown.

## Override title and description

If you want to change the title and description displayed on the list and in the meta tags of the article, add the `title` and `description` property to your frontmatter:

```md[content/stories/1.my-new-article.md]
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
title: Another title
description: Another description
---
```

You are now ready to edit your article and create new ones!

## Optional Arguments

In the frontmatter block, you can pass additional options for displaying your article, such as displaying badges on the image:

```md
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
badges: [{
  color: 'white',
  bg: 'rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3)',
  content: 'Technology'
}]
---
```

## Read more

Alpine is a Nuxt theme using the Content module in `documentDriven` mode.

👉 Learn more in the [Nuxt Content documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/).
